# sql-challenge

  In this challenge, I test some of the functions that I learned during this SQL week. I used commands like "SELECT", "FROM", "AS", "WHERE", "JOIN", DESC, "IN" "AND", etc. 

# Instructions

# Data Modeling

  Inspect the CSV files, and then sketch an Entity Relationship Diagram of the tables. To create the sketch, feel free to use a tool like QuickDBD.
  
# Data Engineering

  1.- Use the provided information to create a table schema for each of the six CSV files. Be sure to do the following:
  Remember to specify the data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints.
  For the primary keys, verify that the column is unique. Otherwise, create a composite keyLinks to an external site., which takes two primary keys to uniquely identify a row.
  Be sure to create the tables in the correct order to handle the foreign keys.

  2.- Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table.

# Data Analysis

1.- List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee.
2.- List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.
3.- List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.
4.- List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
5.- List first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.
6.- List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.
7.- List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
8.- List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).

# Required libraries or coding language. 

- pgAdmin4
- SQL
- Jupyter Lab
- Visual Studio Code
- QuickDBD

# Results

I created two ".sql" files, one is the table schemas and the other one cointein the 8 requirements described in the section of "Data Analysis".

# References

Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

# Resources

To perform this task I used the activities that we did during the past week as a reference. I also got help from my classmates in the study groups and websites like https://app.quickdatabasediagrams.com/#/ and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Composite_key.


